How do we convert a pharmaceutical PDF into usable text?
    for PDF → Text  We're using PyMuPDF initially because it gives
    us straightforward PDF text extraction without adding a large framework

How did you implement document ingestion?
  I created a FastAPI upload endpoint that accepts PDF files.
  The backend validates the file type, temporarily stores the document,
  and passes the file path to a dedicated PDF processing service.
  PyMuPDF extracts the text page by page, and the extracted content is
  returned for further processing.

text_cleaner.py
re is Python's regular expression module.
Regular expressions allow us to find patterns in text.
Later, if we find that retrieval quality suffers because of PDF formatting,
 we can improve the document parser

chunker.py
For pharmaceutical documents, 
we could eventually make this smarter by respecting sections such as:
INDICATIONS
DOSAGE
CONTRAINDICATIONS
WARNINGS
ADVERSE REACTIONS

How did you handle document preprocessing?
After extracting the PDF text using PyMuPDF, 
I clean formatting artifacts such as excessive whitespace and blank lines.
I then split the cleaned document into overlapping chunks. 
I initially use a 1000-character chunk size with 200 characters of overlap as a baseline. 
The overlap helps preserve context when information crosses chunk boundaries. For production, 
I would evaluate the chunking strategy and potentially use semantic or section-aware chunking for pharmaceutical labels

An embedding model converts text into numbers

And never commit this file to GitHub.
Our .gitignore should contain:

venv/
.env
__pycache__/
uploads/

Our current Step 9 chunker is a baseline implementation. 
It is deliberately simple. Once we get the complete RAG pipeline working, 
we'll come back and improve areas that actually affect retrieval quality rather than prematurely optimizing them.

we create an embedding for the question:
    Question
      ↓
    Embedding
      ↓
    Query Vector

Then the vector database searches for the closest vectors.
    Query Vector
        ↓
    Vector Database
        ↓
    Most similar vectors
        ↓
    Relevant chunks

That is the Retrieval part of RAG.

For a learning project, that's acceptable.
But in a production system, we'd consider:
batching embeddings
rate limits
retries
caching
duplicate detection
cost
asynchronous processing
We'll improve this later if needed.
This is exactly the type of real-world RAG problem an
interviewer might ask about.

That can cause duplicate-ID problems.
We'll handle document IDs and duplicate uploads properly 
when we improve the ingestion API.

top_k = 5
    Return the 5 most relevant chunks.
    We'll tune this later based on retrieval quality.

"How similar are these two vectors?"
    It calculates a distance between vectors.

What is distance
    Chroma also provides a distance value representing 
    how close the retrieved vector is to the query vector

API contract design
    I used Pydantic request and response models to validate 
    the API contract and provide predictable structured data between the backend and frontend.

Idempotent operation: performing the same operation multiple times produces 
the same final state rather than continuously creating duplicates.

We're not implementing hashing yet, because I want to first 
understand the basic duplicate-prevention mechanism

How did you prevent retrieval from returning evidence from the wrong drug?
    I stored medicine information as metadata alongside each chunk in ChromaDB 
    and used metadata filtering during retrieval. The semantic search therefore 
    operates only over chunks belonging to the selected medicine.

For now, don't rebuild the chunking system yet. We'll first get the complete 
application working, then improve retrieval quality systematically.